# Installing EOSFactory

The purpose of this tutorial is to demonstrate how to install EOSFactory on any operating system, including Ubuntu, MacOS and Windows.

We've tested EOSFactory on the following platforms:

- Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic)
- MacOS 10.13 (High Sierra)
- Windows 10 (version 1803)

**NOTE:** EOSFactory is now compatible with the latest release of *EOSIO*, tagged as `v1.0.7`, and from now on we expect it to be fully compatible with any subsequent *EOSIO* release.

**NOTE:** EOSFactory requires *EOSIO* to be compiled from the source code, i.e. not deployed in Docker.

## Prerequisites for Ubuntu & MacOS

* Regarding Ubuntu, if you are using a server edition (i.e. not desktop), you'll need to have `gnome-terminal` and an X server installed.
* We assume that you have successfully installed *EOSIO* `v1.0.7` on your machine. If that's not the case, please refer to [this guide](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/wiki/Local-Environment).
* We also assume you have [Python 3.5](https://www.python.org/download/releases/3.0/) installed.

## Prerequisites for Windows

- We assume that you have [*Windows Subsystem for Linux - Ubuntu 18.04*](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/ubuntu-1804/9n9tngvndl3q) installed.
- We also assume that you have successfully installed *EOSIO* `v1.0.7` on your machine. If that's not the case, please refer to [this guide](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/wiki/Local-Environment).
- The only option you have regarding *EOSIO* installation is building it in the Ubuntu 18.04 bash (supplied by WSL), as it cannot be compiled directly on a Windows machine. What we recommend is clone the *EOSIO* source code in Windows and keep it in the Windows file structure, yet build it in WSL, taking advantage of the fact that the entire Windows file structure is fully accessible in WSL.
- And finally, we assume you have [Python 3.5](https://www.python.org/download/releases/3.0/) available in your WSL, but this condition is likely to be already satisfied, as WSL ships with Python 3.5 by default.

## Build EOSFactory on Ubuntu & MacOS

Clone EOSFactory source code from the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/tokenika/eosfactory.git
```

Open a bash terminal and navigate to the `eosfactory` folder:

```
cd eosfactory
```

Then run the `build` script by pointing it to the *EOSIO* source code:

```
./build.sh -e /path/to/your/local/EOSIO/repository -w /path/to/your/local/workspace
```

**NOTE:** Make sure to supply the correct paths:

* The first one is meant to be the location of the *EOSIO* source code that you have cloned from the official [EOSIO repository](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos). 
* The second one is meant to be the location of your smart-contract workspace. It has to be already existant, so you need to create it manually.

In our case the *EOSIO* location is `~/Workspaces/EOS/eos`, and the workspace location is `~/Workspaces/EOS/contracts`, but yours will most probably be different:

```
./build.sh -e ~/Workspaces/EOS/eos -w ~/Workspaces/EOS/contracts
```

## Build EOSFactory on Windows

Clone EOSFactory source code from the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/tokenika/eosfactory.git
```

**NOTE:** We recommend keeping EOSFactory in the Windows file structure, not WSL.

Open a WSL bash terminal and navigate to the `eosfactory` folder:

```
cd /mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/eosfactory
```

Then run the `build` script by pointing it to the *EOSIO* source code:

```
./build.sh -e /path/to/your/local/EOSIO/repository -w /path/to/your/local/workspace
```

**NOTE:** Make sure to supply the correct paths:

- The first one is meant to be the location of the *EOSIO* source code that you have cloned from the official [EOSIO repository](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos). 
- The second one is meant to be the location of your smart-contract workspace. It has to be already existant, so you need to create it manually.

In our case the *EOSIO* location is `/mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/eos`, and the workspace location is `/mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/contracts`, but yours will most probably be different:

```
./build.sh -e /mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/eos -w /mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/contracts
```

**NOTE:** The `build` script assumes that your WSL is located in this directory:

```
%LocalAppData%\\Packages\\CanonicalGroupLimited.Ubuntu18.04onWindows_79rhkp1fndgsc
```

If you have the latest WSL release, this assumption is most likely valid. However, if for some reasons your WSL is in a different location, run the `build` script again with an additional `-o` parameter pointing to your WSL `rootfs` directory, for example:

```
./build.sh -e /mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/eos -o %LocalAppData%\Packages\CanonicalGroupLimited.Ubuntu18.04onWindows_79rhkp1fndgsc\LocalState\rootfs
```

If you are unsure what the path is in your case, open Windows Explorer, navigate to the `%LocalAppData%\\Packages` folder and search for `rootfs`.

## Source system variables

If the build process is successful, you should see this message:

```
         ______ ____   _____  ______      _____ _______ ____  _______     __
        |  ____/ __ \ / ____||  ____/\   / ____|__   __/ __ \|  __ \ \   / /
        | |__ | |  | | (___  | |__ /  \ | |       | | | |  | | |__) \ \_/ / 
        |  __|| |  | |\___ \ |  __/ /\ \| |       | | | |  | |  _  / \   /  
        | |___| |__| |____) || | / ____ \ |____   | | | |__| | | \ \  | |   
        |______\____/|_____/ |_|/_/    \_\_____|  |_|  \____/|_|  \_\ |_|  
```

At this stage you need to source the system variables that were created during EOSFactory installation. The command may differ depending on your system. 

* If you are on *Windows Subsystem for Linux*:

  ```
  source ~/.profile
  ```

* If you are on Ubuntu:

  ```
  source ~/.bashrc
  ```

* And if you are on MacOS:

  ```
  source ~/.bash_profile
  ```

## Install Python TermColor

In order to make unit test ouptut more readable we recommend installing the [termcolor](https://pypi.org/project/termcolor/) extention for Python:

```
sudo apt install python3-pip
python3 -m pip install termcolor
```

## Test EOSFactory

Now let's verify that EOSFactory works and is properly hooked up to *EOSIO*.

First, make sure your working directory is switched to `eosfactory`:

```
cd eosfactory
```

And then run those three tests:

```
python3 ./tests/unittest1.py
python3 ./tests/unittest2.py
python3 ./tests/unittest3.py
```

## Troubleshooting

#### Case 1

If the test fails due to the `can't open file './tests/unittest1.py'` error, make sure your current working directory is `eosfactory`.

#### Case 2

If the test fails due to the `ModuleNotFoundError` error, make sure that after building EOSFactory you've sourced the newly created system variables, as decribed in the previous section.

#### Case 3

If the test fails while executing `eosf.reset() ` with the `string indices must be integers` error, make sure you have EOS `dawn-v4.0.0`  installed. Also, make sure no other instance of `nodeos` is running on your machine.

## Subsequent EOSFactory builds

If you want to upgrade to the latest version of EOSFactory:

```
cd eosfactory
git pull
```

And then just run:

```
./build.sh -e /path/to/your/local/EOSIO/repository -w /path/to/your/local/workspace
```

**NOTE:** After the initial successful installation, unless the path to your *EOSIO* source code has changed, you don't need to supply it when doing subsequent EOSFactory builds, as this path is already stored in your system variables.

If you want to rebuild EOSFactory from scratch, apply the `-r` option:

```
./build.sh -r
```

And to get help for the `build` script:

```
./build.sh -h
```

