# Installing *EOSFactory*

The purpose of this tutorial is to demonstrate how to install *EOSFactory* on any operating system, including Ubuntu, MacOS and Windows.

We've tested *EOSFactory* on the following platforms:

- Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic)
- MacOS 10.13 (High Sierra)
- Windows 10 (version 1803)

**NOTE:** *EOSFactory* is compatible with *EOSIO* [v1.2.x](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/releases/tag/v1.2.0) and [v1.3.x](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/releases/tag/v1.3.0) .

## General Prerequisites

We assume that you have successfully installed *EOSIO* [v1.2.0](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/releases/tag/v1.2.0) (or higher) on your machine. If that's not the case, please refer to [this guide](https://developers.eos.io/eosio-nodeos/docs/getting-the-code).

**NOTE:** *EOSFactory* requires *EOSIO* to be compiled from the source code, i.e. not deployed in Docker.

After the build is complete, make sure to install *EOSIO* with this command:

```
sudo ./eosio_install.sh
```

## Prerequisites for Ubuntu & MacOS

* Regarding Ubuntu, if you are using a server edition (i.e. not desktop), you'll need to have `gnome-terminal` and an X server installed.
* We also assume you have [Python 3.5](https://www.python.org/download/releases/3.0/) installed.

## Prerequisites for Windows

- We assume that you have [*Windows Subsystem for Linux - Ubuntu 18.04*](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/ubuntu-1804/9n9tngvndl3q) installed.
- The only option you have regarding *EOSIO* installation is building it in the Ubuntu 18.04 bash (supplied by WSL), as it cannot be compiled directly on a Windows machine. What we recommend is clone the *EOSIO* source code in Windows and keep it in the Windows file structure, yet build it in WSL, taking advantage of the fact that the entire Windows file structure is fully accessible in WSL.
- And finally, we assume you have [Python 3.5](https://www.python.org/download/releases/3.0/) available in your WSL, but this condition is likely to be already satisfied, as WSL ships with Python 3.5 by default.

## Upgrading from previous version

If you have a previous installation of *EOSFactory* on your machine, please remove all *EOSFactory* export statements from your system.

To do this, edit the `.profile` or `.bash_profile` file:

- If you are on Ubuntu or *Windows Subsystem for Linux*:

  ```
  nano ~/.profile
  ```

- If you are on MacOS:

  ```
  nano ~/.bash_profile
  ```

And make sure all *EOSFactory* export statements are removed:

```
export EOSIO_SOURCE_DIR=...
export EOSIO_EOSFACTORY_DIR=...
export U_HOME=...
export eosf=...
export EOSIO_SHARED_MEMORY_SIZE_MB=...
export EOSIO_CONTRACT_WORKSPACE=...
export PYTHONPATH=...
```

Also, if you're on Ubuntu make sure there are no similar export statements in the `~/.bashrc` file. If there are any, remove all of them.

When you're done, restart your console to apply the change.

If everything has been removed correctly, this command should return an empty value:

```
echo $EOSIO_SOURCE_DIR
```
Especially this one is important - make sure it returns an empty value:

```
echo $EOSIO_SHARED_MEMORY_SIZE_MB
```

Next, run the `build.sh` script:

```
cd eosfactory
./build.sh -e /path/to/your/local/EOSIO/repository -w /path/to/your/local/workspace
```
**NOTE:** Make sure to supply the correct paths:

* The first one is meant to be the location of the *EOSIO* source code that you have cloned from the official [EOSIO repository](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos). 
* The second one is meant to be the location of your smart-contract workspace. It has to be already existent, so if you don't already have it, you need to create it manually.

## Build on Ubuntu & MacOS

Clone *EOSFactory* source code from the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/tokenika/eosfactory.git
```

Open a bash terminal and navigate to the `eosfactory` folder:

```
cd eosfactory
```

Then run the `build` script by pointing it to the *EOSIO* source code:

```
./build.sh -e /path/to/your/local/EOSIO/repository -w /path/to/your/local/workspace
```

**NOTE:** Make sure to supply the correct paths:

* The first one is meant to be the location of the *EOSIO* source code that you have cloned from the official [EOSIO repository](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos). 
* The second one is meant to be the location of your smart-contract workspace. It has to be already existent, so you need to create it manually.

In our case the *EOSIO* location is `~/Workspaces/EOS/eos`, and the workspace location is `~/Workspaces/EOS/contracts`, but yours will most probably be different:

```
./build.sh -e ~/Workspaces/EOS/eos -w ~/Workspaces/EOS/contracts
```

## Build on Windows

Clone *EOSFactory* source code from the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/tokenika/eosfactory.git
```

**NOTE:** We recommend keeping *EOSFactory* in the Windows file structure, not WSL.

Open a WSL bash terminal and navigate to the `eosfactory` folder:

```
cd /mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/eosfactory
```

Then run the `build` script by pointing it to the *EOSIO* source code:

```
./build.sh -e /path/to/your/local/EOSIO/repository -w /path/to/your/local/workspace
```

**NOTE:** Make sure to supply the correct paths:

- The first one is meant to be the location of the *EOSIO* source code that you have cloned from the official [EOSIO repository](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos). 
- The second one is meant to be the location of your smart-contract workspace. It has to be already existent, so you need to create it manually.

In our case the *EOSIO* location is `/mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/eos`, and the workspace location is `/mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/contracts`, but yours will most probably be different:

```
./build.sh -e /mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/eos -w /mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/contracts
```

**NOTE:** The `build` script assumes that your WSL is located in this directory:

```
%LocalAppData%\\Packages\\CanonicalGroupLimited.Ubuntu18.04onWindows_79rhkp1fndgsc
```

If you have the latest WSL release, this assumption is most likely valid. However, if for some reasons your WSL is in a different location, run the `build` script again with an additional `-o` parameter pointing to your WSL `rootfs` directory, for example:

```
./build.sh -e /mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/eos -o %LocalAppData%\Packages\CanonicalGroupLimited.Ubuntu18.04onWindows_79rhkp1fndgsc\LocalState\rootfs
```

If you are unsure what the path is in your case, open Windows Explorer, navigate to the `%LocalAppData%\\Packages` folder and search for `rootfs`.

## Source system variables

If the build process is successful, you should see this message:

```
         ______ ____   _____  ______      _____ _______ ____  _______     __
        |  ____/ __ \ / ____||  ____/\   / ____|__   __/ __ \|  __ \ \   / /
        | |__ | |  | | (___  | |__ /  \ | |       | | | |  | | |__) \ \_/ / 
        |  __|| |  | |\___ \ |  __/ /\ \| |       | | | |  | |  _  / \   /  
        | |___| |__| |____) || | / ____ \ |____   | | | |__| | | \ \  | |   
        |______\____/|_____/ |_|/_/    \_\_____|  |_|  \____/|_|  \_\ |_|  
```

At this stage you need to source the system variables that were created during *EOSFactory* installation. The command may differ depending on your system. 

* If you are on Ubuntu or *Windows Subsystem for Linux*:

  ```
  source ~/.profile
  ```

* If you are on MacOS:

  ```
  source ~/.bash_profile
  ```

**NOTE:** If you have *Visual Studio Code* installed on your machine, make sure it's shut down (or restart it completely after installing *EOSFactory*). Otherwise those system variables will not be visible to VSC and some *CMake*-based tasks executed in VSC might fail.

## Install *termcolor*

In order to make unit test output more readable we recommend installing the [termcolor](https://pypi.org/project/termcolor/) extension for Python:

```
python3 -m pip install termcolor
```

**NOTE:** If the above command fails you might need to install `python3-pip`:

```
sudo apt install python3-pip
```

## Test the build

Now let's verify that EOSFactory works and is properly hooked up to *EOSIO*.

First, make sure your working directory is switched to `eosfactory`:

```
cd eosfactory
```

And then run those three tests:

```
python3 tests/01_hello_world.py
python3 tests/02_eosio_token.py
python3 tests/03_tic_tac_toe.py
```

**NOTE:** When running `01_hello_world` this error is to be expected, as we are testing failure due to authority mismatch:

```
Error 3040003: Transaction should have at least one required authority
```

## Troubleshooting specific errors

#### Case 1

If the test fails due to the `can't open file 'tests/01_hello_world.py'` error, make sure your current working directory is `eosfactory`.

#### Case 2

If the test fails due to the `ModuleNotFoundError` error, make sure that after building EOSFactory you've sourced the newly created system variables, as described in the previous section.

#### Case 3

If a unit test fails with the `string indices must be integers` error, make sure you have EOSIO [v1.2.0](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/releases/tag/v1.2.0) (or higher) installed. Also, make sure no other instance of `nodeos` is running on your machine.

#### Case 4

If `nodeos` is launched but fails to produce blocks, make sure the `EOSIO_SHARED_MEMORY_SIZE_MB` variable has been properly removed from system variables, as described above.

#### Case 5

If a unit tests fails due to the `execve` error, make sure you have executed the `eosio_install.sh` script after *EOSIO* build, as described above.

#### Case 6

If a unit test fails with the `No such file or directory: ~/eosio-wallet/` error, please make sure this directory exists, and if not - create one manually.

## Troubleshooting general problems

First, make sure *EOSFactory* configuration is correct by running this command:

```
cd eosfactory
python3 utils/config.py
```

As a result, you should get data similar to this:

```
"EOSIO_SOURCE_DIR": "/mnt/x/Workspaces/EOS/eos",
"EOSIO_EOSFACTORY_DIR": "/mnt/x/Workspaces/EOS/eosfactory",
"EOSIO_DATA_DIR": "/mnt/x/Workspaces/EOS/eosfactory/build/daemon/data-dir/",
"EOSIO_CONFIG_DIR": "/mnt/x/Workspaces/EOS/eosfactory/build/daemon/data-dir/",
"KEOSD_WALLET_DIR": "${HOME}/eosio-wallet/",
"nodeExe": "/mnt/x/Workspaces/EOS/eos/build/programs/nodeos/nodeos",
"cleosExe": "/mnt/x/Workspaces/EOS/eos/build/programs/cleos/cleos",
"genesisJson": "/mnt/x/Workspaces/EOS/eosfactory/build/daemon/data-dir/genesis.json",
"EOSIO_DAEMON_ADDRESS": "127.0.0.1:8888",
"EOSIO_KEY_PRIVATE": "5KQwrPbwdL6PhXujxW37FSSQZ1JiwsST4cqQzDeyXtP79zkvFD3",
"EOSIO_KEY_PUBLIC": "EOS6MRyAjQq8ud7hVNYcfnVPJqcVpscN5So8BhtHuGYqET5GDW5CV",
"EOSIO_WALLET_ADDRESS": "127.0.0.1:8888",
"EOSIO_DAEMON_NAME": "nodeos",
"EOSIO_WASM_CLANG": "${HOME}/opt/wasm/bin/clang",
"EOSIO_BOOST_INCLUDE_DIR": "${HOME}/opt/boost/include",
"EOSIO_WASM_LLVM_LINK": "${HOME}/opt/wasm/bin/llvm-link",
"EOSIO_WASM_LLC": "${HOME}/opt/wasm/bin/llc",
"EOSIO_S2WASM": "/usr/local/bin/eosio-s2wasm",
"EOSIO_WAST2WASM": "/usr/local/bin/eosio-wast2wasm",
"sharedMemory": "200",
"contractWorkspace": "/mnt/x/Workspaces/EOS/contracts",
"workspaceEosio": "/mnt/x/Workspaces/EOS/eos/build/contracts/"
```

Next, verify that all the above paths are resolved.

## Subsequent builds

If you want to upgrade to the latest version of *EOSFactory*:

```
cd eosfactory
git pull
```

And then just run:

```
./build.sh
```

**NOTE:** After the initial successful installation, unless the path to your *EOSIO* source code and/or your workspace directory has changed, you don't need to supply them when doing subsequent *EOSFactory* builds, as those paths are already stored in your system variables. If you do need to supply those parameters, use this syntax:

```
./build.sh -e /path/to/your/local/EOSIO/repository -w /path/to/your/local/workspace
```

And to get help for the `build` script:

```
./build.sh -h
```
