# Interacting with Public Testnet

The purpose of this tutorial is to demonstrate how *EOSFactory* can be used to deploy and test EOS smart-contracts on a public testnet, e.g. [Jungle Testnet](http://dev.cryptolions.io/).

## Prerequisites

- This tutorial assumes that you have successfully installed *EOSFactory*. If it's not the case, please refer to [Installing EOSFactory](01.InstallingEOSFactory.html).

- We assume that you are familiar with the material covered in [Interacting with EOS Contracts in EOSFactory](02.InteractingWithEOSContractsInEOSFactory.html) and [Building & Deploying EOS Contracts using EOSFactory](03.BuildingAndDeployingEOSContractsInEOSFactory.html).

- We also assume you have [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) installed. If you are on Windows and run VSC for the first time, in order to get access to *Windows Subsystem for Linux* bash terminal inside VSC, navigate to `Preferences -> Settings` and overwrite the default configuration for the `terminal.integrated.shell.windows` option:

  ```
  "terminal.integrated.shell.windows": "C:\\Windows\\sysnative\\bash.exe"
  ```


## The problems with public testnet

To be able to create a new account on a public testnet you need an account name and two public keys (owner & active). The problem with account names is that they need to be unique and also comply with strict rules (e.g. `[a-z1-5]{12}` ).

Another problem is that you do not have full control of a public testnet (as is the case with a local private testnet), you cannot reset it any time you want and thus each time you use a public testnet for your smart-contract testing you need to either create a new set of accounts (which is ineffective and time consuming) or you need to carefully recycle the same set of accounts (each having a unique random name).

*EOSFactory* uses the latter approach and offers a built-in mechanism for caching multiple accounts and mapping their random names to a set of stable names used in smart-contract testing. The mapping is stored in `JSON` files located next to the wallets managed by `keosd`, i.e. in the `~/eosio-wallet` folder.

## Register a public testnet with *EOSFactory* 

We consider two cases, depending whether you already have an account registered on a public testnet or not.

#### Case 1: You do not have an account

Use the following Python script:

```
python3 utils/register_testnet.py
```

The script two parameters:

- an URL of a public node offering access to the testnet, e.g. `http://88.99.97.30:38888`,
- your preferred alias for the testnet, e.g. `jungle`.

In our case the command looks like this:

```
python3 utils/register_testnet.py http://88.99.97.30:38888 jungle
```

In response you will receive a message similar to the following example:

```
Account Name: tcfchehyagd4
Owner Public Key: EOS4x5jhfaJ6vA7z5K36dWFkeZfabRbSoSoGUQFjvWNUwtFt7jXGU
Active Public Key: EOS8LQq1VDf1F5cBSdYvbott9GgsR7Bvz4ttR8A6RJiHDKsPdBY1c
```

To complete the process, use the above data to register a new account on a public testnet. This account will serve as a master account for the *EOSFactory* testnet object.

**NOTE:** Make sure to use the testnet's faucet to fund the newly created account with enough liquid EOS to be able to spawn other accounts, delegate CPU & NET and buy RAM for them.

When you are ready, type `go` to let the script verify that the newly created account has been registered properly with the testnet. Once this is done, the script proceeds to register the testnet with *EOSFactory*.

#### Case 2: You already have an account

We assume that you already have an account registered on a public testnet and this account is able to act as a master account for the *EOSFactory* testnet object, i.e. it's funded with enough liquid EOS to be able to spawn other accounts, delegate CPU & NET and buy RAM for them.

Use the following Python script:

```
python3 utils/register_testnet.py
```

The script takes five parameters:

- an URL of a public node offering access to the testnet, e.g. `http://88.99.97.30:38888`,
- your preferred alias for the testnet, e.g. `jungle`,
- your account name, as registered on the testnet, e.g. `dgxo1uyhoytn`,
- your account's owner private key,
- your account's active private key.

In our case the command looks like this:

```
python3 utils/register_testnet.py http://88.99.97.30:38888 jungle -a dgxo1uyhoytn 5JE9XSurh4Bmdw8Ynz72Eh6ZCKrxf63SmQWKrYJSXf1dEnoiKFY 5JgLo7jZhmY4huDNXwExmaWQJqyS1hGZrnSjECcpWwGU25Ym8tA
```

As a result, the script verifies that the account supplied by you is properly registered with the testnet and then proceeds to register the testnet with *EOSFactory*.

## List registered testnets

Open a bash terminal and run Python CLI:

```
python3
```

Once in the Python shell, run this command:

```
from eosf import *
testnets()
```

## Run unit tests

Open the `eosfactory/contracts/03_tic_tac_toe` folder in *Visual Studio Code*.

In the terminal inside VSC, execute `unittest1.py ` without any parameters, just to make sure everything works fine on a local testnet:

```
python3 test/unittest1.py
```

Next, you can attempt to run the same unit test on a public testnet:

```
python3 test/unittest1.py jungle
```

**NOTE:** The positional parameter, in our case `jungle`, indicates the alias of the public testnet.

Similarly, you can run the other (non-standard) test:

```
python3 test/test1.py jungle
```

## Account management

During the initial run of a unit test, the master account associated with a given testnet is used to create (and register) all the additional accounts required by the unit test.

However, during subsequent runs those accounts are reused, which saves you a lot of hassle with managing those accounts and constantly having to refund them. As described above, this is possible because all newly created accounts are internally cached by *EOSFactory* and their random names are mapped to stable variable names.

Use the `-r` option, if you want to run the test from scratch, i.e. with the existing accounts being removed from *EOSFactory* cache and replaced by another set of newly created accounts:

```
python3 test/unittest1.py jungle -r
```

## Utilizing public testnet in an *ad hoc* mode

If you have an account on a public testnet, you can skip the process of registering this testnet with *EOSFactory* and run a unit test directly, by using the `-t` option.

```
python3 test/unittest1.py -t
```

This option requires four parameters:

- an URL of a public node offering access to the testnet, e.g. `http://88.99.97.30:38888`,
- your account name, as registered on the testnet,
- your account's owner private key,
- your account's active private key.

In our case the command looks like this:

```
python3 test/unittest1.py -t http://88.99.97.30:38888 dgxo1uyhoytn 5JE9XSurh4Bmdw8Ynz72Eh6ZCKrxf63SmQWKrYJSXf1dEnoiKFY 5JgLo7jZhmY4huDNXwExmaWQJqyS1hGZrnSjECcpWwGU25Ym8tA
```

