# Using EOSFactory With an Existing EOS Smart-Contract Project

The purpose of this tutorial is to demonstrate how to apply *EOSFactory* to an existing EOS smart-contract project with an arbitrary folder structure.

## Prerequisites

* You have successfully installed *EOSFactory* on your machine, including all its dependencies, such as Python, PIP and EOSIO. For further details please refer to [this guide](https://eosfactory.io/build/html/tutorials/01.InstallingEOSFactory.html).
* Your smart-contract project is located inside a folder named `foo_project`.
* Your smart-contract's C++ source code is contained in a file named `foo_source.cpp`, located anywhere inside the `foo_project` folder (it can also be located in a subfolder inside the `foo_project` folder).
* If your project requires a C++ header file, it's contained in a file named `foo_header.hpp`, located anywhere inside the `foo_project` folder (it can also be located in a subfolder inside the `foo_project` folder).
* A test scenario for your contract is contained in a file named `foo_test.py`. This file can be located anywhere you want - it doesn't need to be inside the `foo_project` folder.

**NOTE:** Obviously, `foo_project`, `foo_source`, `foo_header` and `foo_test` are placeholders - they can be replaced by any names you prefer.

**NOTE:** We assume there is only one C++ source code file (i.e. an  `*.cpp` file) within the `foo_project` folder. If your project for some reasons requires more than one `*.cpp` file, *EOSFactory* can handle this situation but it requires a more complex setup, which is beyond the scope of this guide.

## Create a test script

A test scenario contained in the `foo_test.py` file needs to be expressed as a  Python script.

Firstly, make sure the `foo_test.py` file contains the following import clause:

```
from eosfactory.eosf import *
```

Secondly, make sure the `foo_test.py` file defines a string constant named `PROJECT_DIR` equal to the absolute path of the `foo_project` folder, i.e. it contains an expression like this:

```
PROJECT_DIR = "/path/to/foo_project/"
```

Note that the `PROJECT_DIR` constant is needed because it is then used to define a variable that holds a reference to the contract:

```
c = Contract(host, PROJECT_DIR)
```

And here is a complete (yet trivial) example of a valid `foo_test.py` file:

```
from eosfactory.eosf import *

PROJECT_DIR = "/mnt/c/Workspaces/EOS/foo_project/"

def test():
    reset()
    
    master = new_master_account()
    host = new_account(master)
    
    c = Contract(host, PROJECT_DIR)
    c.build()
    c.deploy()

    alice = new_account(master)
    host.push_action(
        "hi", {"user":alice}, 
        permission=(alice, Permission.ACTIVE))

    assert("alice" in DEBUG())

    stop()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    test()
```

For less trivial examples of test scenarios, please refer to examples listed in [this folder](https://github.com/tokenika/eosfactory/tree/master/contracts).

## Run the test script

To run your test script, you simply run the `foo_test.py` file with your `python3` executable:

```
python3 /path/to/your/test/scripts/foo_test.py
```

## Interact with your contract

If you want to manually interact with your smart-contract via *EOSFactory*, first run the Python CLI:

```
python3
```

Inside the Python CLI initialize a local testnet, create a reference to your smart-contract, then build it, and finally deploy it:

```
from eosfactory.eosf import *
reset()
create_master_account("master")
create_account("host", master)
c = Contract(host, "/path/to/foo_project/")
c.build()
c.deploy()
```

At this stage you are ready to interact with your smart-contract, referring to it either by its hosting account, e.g.

```
host.push_action("foo", {...})
```

...or directly by its variable, e.g.

```
c.push_action("foo", {...})
```

To stop the local testnet run:

```python
stop()
```

And to exit the Python CLI:

```bash
exit()
```

Alternatively, use the `ctrl-D` shortcut.