# Getting Started with EOS Contracts in *EOSFactory* 

The purpose of this tutorial is to demonstrate how *EOSFactory* and its Python CLI can be used to make interacting with EOS easy & intuitive.

## Prerequisites

This tutorial assumes that you have successfully installed *EOSFactory*. If it's not the case, please refer to [this guide](InstallingEOSFactory.md).

We also assume that you are familiar with the official [EOS tutorials](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/wiki/Tutorial-Getting-Started-With-Contracts), as they will give you a broader context and explain the rationale behind EOS smart-contracts.

Once you have a good grasp how standard EOS tools like `cleos` and `eosiocpp` work, you'll be able to appreciate how quickly similar tasks can be performed with *EOSFactory*, thus speeding up the smart-contract development cycle.

## Run Python CLI

In *Visual Studio Code*, switch to the Bash console and type `python3` to run the Python CLI. The prompt should change to `>>>` signifying that it's ready for Python commands.

Next, import the *EOSFactory* Python toolset:

```
import pyteos
```

## Start a Local Testnet

To start your own single-node local testnet:

```
node.reset()
```

Assuming everything has worked properly, you should see a new console window pop up and a block generation message appearing there every 0.5 seconds:

```
eosio generated block 046b9984... #101527 @ 2018-05-01T14:24:58.000 with 0 trxs
```

To get information about the testnet:

```
node.info()
```

## Manage the Local Testnet

#### Stop & continue

To stop and then continue running the testnet:

```
node.stop()
```

Wait until the testnet window disappears, and then:

```
node.continue()
```

#### Stop & reset

To stop and reset the testnet:

```
node.stop()
```

Wait until the testnet window disappears, and then:

```
node.reset()
```

## Initialize the Workspace

To initialize the workspace:

```
node.init()
```

The initialization process does the following things:

* deploys the *Bios* contract
* creates a reference to the default `eosio` account
* creates several test accounts `alice`, `bob` & `carol`
* creates a wallet and imports into it the keys of all the above accounts

If you need additional test accounts, you can easily create them:

```
charlie = Account("charlie", eosio)
```

**NOTE:** The first argument indicates the new account's name, whereas the second indicates the master account, in this case the default `eosio` account.

If you need to lock or unlock your wallet, use the `wallet` object to do it:

```
wallet.lock()
```

```
wallet.unlock()
```

## Deploy the EOS Token Contract

To deploy a pre-compiled contract just supply the name of the folder where it's located.

In this example we deploy the `eosio.token` contract:

```
contract = Contract("eosio.token")
```

**NOTE:** Several things are happening behind the scenes: a new account is created with a new pair of keys and the contract is assigned to this new account. What you get back is the reference to this contract.

## Create the EOS Token

To create a new token we call the `create` action on the `eosio.token` contract with the proper arguments for this action:

```
contract.push_action("create", '{"issuer":"eosio", "maximum_supply":"1000000000.0000 EOS", "can_freeze":0, "can_recall":0, "can_whitelist":0}', contract.account)
```

**NOTE:** The `push_action` method takes three arguments: the action name, its arguments in JSON format, and the account whose permission is needed. In this case the permission is assigned to `contract.account`, i.e. the account holding the contract.

## Issue EOS Tokens

Now that we have created the token, the issuer can issue new tokens to `alice`:

```
$ contract.push_action("issue", '{"to":"alice", "quantity":"100.0000 EOS", "memo":"memo"}', eosio)
```

**NOTE:** In this case the permission is assigned to the default `eosio` account.

If you want to see the actual transaction that was broadcast, you can use the `show_action` method:

```
contract.show_action("issue", '{"to":"alice", "quantity":"100.0000 EOS", "memo":"memo"}', eosio)
```

## Transfer EOS Tokens

Now that account `alice` has tokens, we will transfer some to account `carol`.  

```
$ contract.push_action("transfer", '{"from":"alice", "to":"carol", "quantity":"25.0000 EOS", "memo":"memo"}', alice)
```

**NOTE:** As the third argument we pass the reference to the account `alice` to indicate that she is the one who authorized this action.

## Check the Contract Table

From the contract's ABI we know that the table keeping track of the token balances is called `accounts`. Let's check the state of both accounts involved in the previous transaction:

```
contract.get_table("accounts", alice)
```

```
contract.get_table("accounts", carol)
```

**NOTE:** The `get_table` method takes two arguments: the name of the table as specified by the contract ABI and the scope within the contract in which the table is found.