# Installing EOSFactory

The purpose of this tutorial is to demonstrate how to install EOSFactory on any operating system, including Ubuntu, MacOS and Windows.

We've tested EOSFactory on the following platforms:

- Ubuntu 16.04 (Xenial) & 18.04 (Bionic)
- MacOS 10.13 (High Sierra)
- Windows 10 (version 1803)

**NOTE:** EOSFactory is compatible with the latest *EOSIO* release, i.e. `dawn-v4.0.0`. 

## Prerequisites for Ubuntu & MacOS

* Regarding Ubuntu, if you are using a server edition (i.e. not desktop), you'll need to have `gnome-terminal` and an X server installed.
* We assume that you have successfully installed *EOSIO* `dawn-v4.0.0` on your machine. If that's not the case, please refer to [this guide](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/wiki/Local-Environment). EOSFactory requires *EOSIO* to be compiled from the source code, i.e. not deployed in Docker.
* We also assume you have [Python 3.5](https://www.python.org/download/releases/3.0/) installed.

## Prerequisites for Windows

- We assume that you have [*Windows Subsystem for Linux*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Subsystem_for_Linux) (WSL) installed. If that's not the case, please refer to [this guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10).
- We also assume that you have successfully installed *EOSIO* `dawn-v4.0.0` on your machine. If that's not the case, please refer to [this guide](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/wiki/Local-Environment). EOSFactory requires *EOSIO* to be compiled from the source code, i.e. not deployed in Docker.
- The only option you have regarding *EOSIO* installation is building it in the Ubuntu bash (supplied by WSL), as it cannot be compiled directly on a Windows machine. What we recommend is clone the *EOSIO* source code in Windows and keep it in the Windows file structure, yet build it in WSL, taking advantage of the fact that the entire Windows file structure is fully accessible in WSL.
- And finally, we assume you have [Python 3.5](https://www.python.org/download/releases/3.0/) available in your WSL, but this condition is likely to be already satisfied, as WSL ships with Python 3.5 by default.

## Build EOSFactory on Ubuntu & MacOS

Clone EOSFactory source code from the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/tokenika/eosfactory.git
```

Open a bash terminal and navigate to the `eosfactory` folder:

```
cd eosfactory
```

Then run the `build` script by pointing it to the *EOSIO* source code:

```
./build.sh -e /path/to/your/local/EOSIO/repository
```

**NOTE:** Make sure to supply the correct path - it's meant to be the location of the *EOSIO* source code that you have cloned from the official [EOSIO repository](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos). In our case the path is `~/Workspaces/EOS/eos`, but yours will most probably be different:

```
./build.sh -e ~/Workspaces/EOS/eos
```

And finally, load the system variables that were created during installation. The command may differ depending on your system. If you are on Ubuntu:

```
source ~/.bashrc
```

And if you are on MacOS:

```
source ~/.bash_profile
```

## Build EOSFactory on Windows

Clone EOSFactory source code from the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/tokenika/eosfactory.git
```

**NOTE:** We recommend keeping EOSFactory in the Windows file structure, not WSL.

Open a WSL bash terminal and navigate to the `eosfactory` folder:

```
cd /mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/eosfactory
```

Then run the `build` script by pointing it to the *EOSIO* source code:

```
./build.sh -e /path/to/your/local/EOSIO/repository
```

**NOTE:** Make sure to supply the correct path - it's meant to be the location of the *EOSIO* source code that you have cloned from the official [EOSIO repository](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos). In our case the path is `/mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/eos`, but yours will most probably be different:

```
./build.sh -e /mnt/d/Workspaces/EOS/eos
```

After the build process is finished, make sure your `HOME` user variable has been set properly. The `build` script assumes that your WSL is located in this directory:

```
%LocalAppData%\\Packages\\CanonicalGroupLimited.UbuntuonWindows_79rhkp1fndgsc
```

If you have the latest WSL release, this assumption is most likely valid. However, if for some reasons your WSL is in a different location, please amend your `HOME` user variable manually by using this command in your WSL bash:

```
setx.exe "HOME" %LocalAppData%\\Packages\\CanonicalGroupLimited.UbuntuonWindows_79rhkp1fndgsc\\LocalState\\rootfs\\home\\$USER
```

**NOTE:** If you are unsure what the path is in your case, open *Windows Explorer*, navigate to the `%LocalAppData%\\Packages` folder and search for `rootfs`.

And finally, load the system variables that were created during installation:

```
source ~/.bashrc
```

## Test EOSFactory

If the installation is successful you should see this message:

```
         ______ ____   _____  ______      _____ _______ ____  _______     __
        |  ____/ __ \ / ____||  ____/\   / ____|__   __/ __ \|  __ \ \   / /
        | |__ | |  | | (___  | |__ /  \ | |       | | | |  | | |__) \ \_/ / 
        |  __|| |  | |\___ \ |  __/ /\ \| |       | | | |  | |  _  / \   /  
        | |___| |__| |____) || | / ____ \ |____   | | | |__| | | \ \  | |   
        |______\____/|_____/ |_|/_/    \_\_____|  |_|  \____/|_|  \_\ |_|  
```

Let's verify that EOSFactory works and is properly hooked up to *EOSIO*.

First, make sure your working directory is switched to `eosfactory`:

```
cd eosfactory
```

And then run those three tests:

```
python3 ./tests/test1.py
python3 ./tests/test2.py
python3 ./tests/test3.py
```

If everything works fine, you should see this message at the end of each test round:

```
Test OK
```
If it fails due to the `ModuleNotFoundError` error, make sure you've loaded the newly created system variables into your terminal:

```
source ~/.bashrc
```

Or if you are on MacOS:

```
source ~/.bash_profile
```

## Subsequent EOSFactory builds

If you want to upgrade to the latest version of EOSFactory:

```
cd eosfactory
git pull
```

And then just run:

```
./build.sh
```

**NOTE:** After the initial successful installation, unless the path to your *EOSIO* source code has changed, you don't need to supply it when doing subsequent EOSFactory builds, as this path is already stored in your system variables.

If you want rebuild EOSFactory from scratch, apply the `-r` option:

```
./build.sh -r
```

