## What works in this release

Using Python commands you currently can:

* launch a single-node private testnet and fully control it: stop it and then continue running it or restart it
* initialize the testnet with the `bios` contract & several test accounts
* compile a contract (both ABI and WAST)
* create a new contract from a pre-defined template
* deploy a contract (the account holding the contract is created behind the scenes)
* interact with a contract by pushing actions to it
* receive text messages printed by the contract
* extract data from a contract's table
* run a simple unit-test utilizing all the above features

## What's unavailable in this release:

* Unit-test don't have proper assertions and don't handle errors properly.
* You cannot connect to a testnet of your choice, only to the private one.
* There are no utilities for debugging contracts.
* There is no easy way to work with smart-contracts stored outside of EOSFactory `contracts` folder.

## Next Steps

#### Introduce proper unit-testing structure

Most probably we'll create a Python class that handles those matters and user-defined unit-test will inherit those features by extending this base class.

#### Support for user-defined workspace

We'll introduce a clear separation between EOSFactory source code (including with its demo examples) a user's workspace where his contracts and unit-tests are stored.

#### Enable debugging

Smart-contracts can never be properly debugged (as you cannot pause the blockchain easily) but we think we can come up with quite useful ways of tracing a contract's execution.

#### Connect to public testnet

You'll be able to connect to any blockchain you want, not just the single-node private one, as it is now.

#### Extract the C++ layer as a separate project

We plan to move the C++ layer's source code (called `teos`) to a sperate repository, so that it can serve other projects. What's nice about `teos` is that it's a static library, not an executable like `cleos`. 